You probably have some rough idea of what GRC means.
In literal terms, GRC stands for governance, risk, and compliance.
But what does that mean?
Now if I asked you,
how would you want to run your business?
You're probably going to tell me you want to be mission-oriented,
hyper-focused on your goals and strategy. You want to be shrewd.
You want to make sure that you don't make
bad decisions and you take advantage when you can.
You want to be trustworthy.
You want your customers to trust
that you're doing the things that you need to do as a company.
Everything we just described is GRC.
You can roughly translate business goals into
individual components of governance, risk, and compliance.
Mission-oriented, that focus on the mission and strategy,
well, that equates roughly to governance.
Shrewdness, the idea that you want to make
well-founded decisions, that's risk management.
Trustworthiness, making sure that you do the things
that you're expected to do as a company, well, that's compliance.
We'll talk more about the individual components throughout the course,
but I want to make sure that everyone has a really clear understanding of GRC
at this macro level before we talk more about security GRC specifically.
We just talked about how certain business goals roughly
translate to GRC functions at a macro level.
But remember, in this course,
we're going to be discussing four broad topics of security governance,
risk, and also compliance.
What that means is security governance specifically,
security compliance, and security risk management.
We'll also spend time talking about security assessments and how they fit in.
Now, you're probably wondering at this point though,
what's the real difference between GRC at that macro level and security GRC?
In general, security GRC is more tactical
than what I would call traditional or operational GRC.
We'll talk more about that historical contexts in just a moment,
but for now, I would think of security GRC as tactical.
Meaning that mission-oriented really becomes a question
of whether security is acting in a manner that supports our business goals.
Shrewdness becomes a question as to whether we're making good decisions about security.
Trustworthiness now asks what security is actually required of our organization?
You can see how the questions relate to the original business goals,
but now we're really asking,
how does security support business objectives?